Welcome to the next section of this course.
In this section, we'll be focusing on the page object model, which is a design pattern.
So what is the page object model?
So page object model is a design pattern to create object repositories for web UI elements.
Under this model, we are to separate our tests into two parts.
For example, if you were tested a home page of a website, we would split our code into two classes.
The first would be a test class which contains instructions like to click a button on a home page.
The second part would be an object class, which stores the locator and methods to access those locators.
So let's look at his visual explanation.
So I have two classes, the home page test, which contains my test code and homepage objects, which
stores the locators of the home page.
We then combine these two classes where we use the new web driver and that will allow us to carry out
our test.
So why do we do this?
Say we had a number of tests that use the home page, a log in, test my access to sign in page by clicking
the sign in button on the home page.
Another add products to basket test might click on a product from the home page.
What happens if a developer changes the layout of the home page and the locator values change?
In the old bundle, we would have to go through each test class and update the locators individually.
Under the page object model, we would only have to update the locators in the home page objects class.
All tests, then observe and inherit the new locator values.
So this is a visual explanation.
Said Home page test classes retrieved the home page locator values from the object's class, meaning
if the locators were to change, we'd only have to update the locators in one class, which is home
page objects.
So you can see here I have four different test classes and they are all use in objects from the home
page objects class.
So instead of the locators being in in each one of these individual classes, it now inherits locators
from the single homepage objects class.
So this means that if I ever update those locator values, all my classes who inherit that new change.
So we'll see additional advantages.
So our test classes are simplified as they will contain less code.
This makes our code easier to read.
Our code also becomes easier to maintain.
And the same objects, e.g. those created in the home object Java class in this example can be used
by multiple test cases, meaning less repetitiveness.
So I hope this has made it easier to understand why we use the page object model and in the next few
lectures I'll be showing you how to do it.
Thanks for watching.